From Hansel minutes.com it's Hansel
minutes, a weekly discussion with
web developer and technologists. Scott
Hanselman. This is Lawrence Ryan announcing
show number one 98. Recorded
live Thursday, January 14th, 2010. Support for
Hanselman it's provided by Tellerik
rad controls, the most comprehensive
suite of components for windows
forms and asp.net web applications
online@wwwdottelerik.com. In this episode, Scott
talks about the reactive framework
and linked to events with
Eric Meyer. So Scott Hanselman, and
this is another episode of
Hansel minutes and I'm here
on the Microsoft campus in
Redmond, Washington, and building 35.
And I have the distinct
pleasure of sitting down today
with Eric Meyer. How are you,
sir? I'm very good. Thank
you. Now we're sitting here
and building 35 in the
cloud programmability group, is that
correct? Yes. My team is
sculpted cloud programmability team, and
we're focusing on making, it's
going to, you know what,
another way I say it
just like democratizing the cloud,
democratizing the cloud. Well, wow.
You have a lot of
black squares that are actually
stacked up on your wall
here. These are all a
patent cubes. That's correct. So,
yeah, that's one of my
hobbies to collect or to
collect patents, to write patterns.
When I was, before I
came to Microsoft, I was
a professor and as a
professor, you ride research papers.
And so now when I
came to Microsoft, I'm in
a product team, you don't
ride the research paper. So
I kind of shifts that.
You did that with patents.
Well, it's, it's, it's ever
so imposing to notice that
you've basically used them as
wallpaper. Yeah, my goal is
to kind of fill the
whole window. You've definitely made
your point. One of the
things that I wanted to
come and talk to you
about is this notion of
the reactive framework. I've heard
people refer to it, colloquially
as things like linked to
events, but I want to
start at the beginning because
I think that the listeners
understand linked to objects. I
think most of our listeners
understand the basics of IEnumerable,
but if you wouldn't mind
talking to me, like I'm
a, a four year old,
you know, C sharp or
VB program, and then let's
move our way up to
programming the cloud. Okay. No
problem. So yeah, everybody's familiar
with linked to objects. That's
the workhorse of the.net framework.
And if you look at,
I innumerable, it is an
interface that many collections implement.
So for example, RH lists,
hash tables, they'll implement the
IEnumerable interface. And the I
numerable interface is a full
interface. So if you have
a collection that implements, I
numerable, let's call that the
producer, then the consumer asks
the producer to get the
next element. So you say,
move next or first you
say it gets the numerator,
right? Which gives you a
handle to enumerate the elements
of the collection. And then
whenever you want to have
the next element, you say,
move next, which causes the
producer to create or produce
the next element. But as
the consumer, you're a block.
So you're pooling, but you're
blocked until the producer, hence
you the next element. And
then won't move next returns.
True. Then the value is
available. And current, Does that
mean that as someone who
might implement that interface, I
could write a, a poorly
behaved implementation of IEnumerable such
that I am blocking all
callers or at least making
them slow. Yes. For example,
when you use iterators, you
know, the things that have
yield to return, so you
might write something that returns
an IEnumerable off end, where
you never reached a yield
to return, or, you know,
it might take, you know,
you do a threat, don't
sleep, you know, off an
hour. Right. So, and that
means that now the producer
is kind of dependent on
the collaboration of the producer
to get the, those values.
Well, I think that as
the program or the, the
consumer of those values has
an assumption, just like there
are assumptions at the, at
the method and property level.
When I call a method,
I expect it will take
a little while if I
call a property, I can,
I like, while it's possible
that underneath the get is
a lot of evil and
I sleep for an hour,
there's an implicit contract that
methods take time and properties
don't. And I think that
amongst those, that produce to
me that consume on an
a for each loop. That
is, It's going to be
pretty fast. Yes. But let,
let me give you an
example of like in dotnet
FORO, when you reach files
our directory, that's not readership
IEnumerable of files or file
info filing. So yes, but
depending on, you know, the,
your disk speed and so
on, that might take a
long time. So really there's
a lot of latency in
that call. So instead of
blocking, and instead of like
pulling the data from the
producer, you might be better
off to kinda, you know,
be notified to whenever the
producer has a value available.
And that's kind of push
model is something that we're
all familiar about at Schwab.
Because if you ride a
UI application, you're not asking
a button, you know, give
me your next click. But
when the button has an
X clicks, it will call
you back. Exactly. The button
has, it kind of pushed
me, But I think that
the perception in the past,
and, and is that that's
that slow, that events by
their nature are slow. And
that may be just apocryphal.
It may just be perception,
but that sense of, if
I ask you, I want
it now, if count on
you to tell me it's
going to take awhile for
that message to get back.
So I think that people
would intuitively and perhaps wrongly
think that that kind of
a model would be slow,
But that, I think that's
not really relevant, right? Because
whether it's slow or fast
is really a way to
decouple the speeds from the
producer and the speed of
the consumer, right? With innumerable,
I, as a consumer now
kind of, you know, depend
on the speed of the
producer. So I cannot proceed
until the producer proceeds, whereas
with the push model with
events, right, I can do
stuff while somebody else presses
the button. I'm blocked on
that. And this is the
same why when you're doing
say in silver lights and
when you're making service calls
and they're, you know, you
get in, you make the
call and you get an
event when the call returns,
or you used to begin
invoke and to invoke pattern
there, you also used this
push model because you want
to decouple your progress from
the progress of this other
operation. What is the difference
in that versus maybe a
poor man's implementation in the
sense of a lot of
people are used to spinning
off another thread in order
to go and pull data.
And they may feel that
they've solved the problem by
simply letting another thread Worry
about it. And that's fine
because when you let another
tread worry about that, that's
kind of an implementation detail,
but now you still have
to create a mechanism when,
how that other threat signals
to you when it's done.
And again, like the, the,
the dot-net begin folk and
evoke pattern is a good
example because it gives you
two ways to deal with
that. One way is you
can give a callback to
the begin, right. That will
be called when it's done,
or you can block on
the async results. Right. Right.
So it allows you to
bow, it's kind of, you
know, block or gets called
back. Right. And so, well,
what I'm trying to do
with reactive framework is still
kind of separate and formalize
both these models. So the,
the push model or sort
of pull model, that's already
formalized to the innumerable, right?
So if you have a
source that you pull values
from that source implements, I
innumerable, but we don't have
anything that's formalized as the
push model. So if I
have a source that pushes
stuff at me, what is
the interface for that? So
that I can have multiple
types that implement that source,
such that just like with
innumerable, I can write libraries.
That only depends on the
interface, but not on the
actual time. Okay. So does
that, and I've read up
on this a little bit.
Does this is then the
mathematical duel to link to
objects? Yes. So the, the,
the mechanism at which we
designed the interface we're using,
we're this trick of mathematical
duality, but that sounds really
scary. It's not like I
need a PhD to understand
the end. That's not true
at all. So let's go
back to the simple example
of a button. Excellent. Okay.
Now look at the button
while there's a button. In
my opinion, a button is
really a collection. It's a
collection of clicks. It's a
potential clicks. Yes. Well, no,
but it's really a click
because Oh, you get to
click events, right. In some
sense, it's a collection, but
it's not a collection that
you pull from, but there's
a collection that pushes the
values at you. Oh, it
doesn't really matter that I
don't know how many there
are. No, it is. It's
just a collection. Yes. And
so I'm like, in my
talks, I often use coins.
And then here, I'm old
school, we got a bag
of pennies here. All right.
Yeah. And now you can
visualize. And my math teacher
always said, if you want
to explain something, explain it
with money. All right. Let's
see how we're going to
use the money though. So
like, let's start with the
pool model. The pool model
is, so you are the
sculptor cycle button. I'm going
to hold the money here.
And he used to show,
he used to collection. And
now I have to ask
Scott move next. Okay. And
now Scott, of course is
kind of teasing me and
he's not giving me the
money. He's loving me way
too. He gave me one.
And now I say, move
next again. I'm thinking about
it. And he's thinking about
it. And you know, and
now I get the next
penny. All right. Okay. Makes
sense. And so I'm really
begging Scott's to give me
the next shot. That's another,
a nice feeling. No, it's
not. What I rather have
is I want to have
the push model where I
tell Scott's, you know, whenever
you have a penny, just
throw it at me to
push it at me. Nah,
nah, I'm getting rich. It's
like a jackpot in the
casino, you know, where it's
just the money money's flying
at you. So that's kind
of the difference between the
pool model and the push
model. And you may well
be doing other things, but
you're not as much worried
about waiting around for me
to give you that money.
Exactly. Because while, You know,
I can just have like
a cup here and I
can tell you, put the
money in the cup and
then I can go on
and do other things. Okay.
So that just kind of
the basic idea between the
push model and the pull
model. Okay. And then what
RX, yes. Is basically two
interfaces that to represent a
push based collections. Okay. And
the push based collections, let's
go back to innumerable to
explain how the full collections
work. So in numerable you
first say gets enumerate door
and then when you get
to enumerate or you can
go move next and then
you get to current and
then you call move next
and they go current and
then move next to return
false. And then you're done.
Okay. Now let's look at
how you would do a
push collection. So with a
push collection, you, instead of
saying, get enumerator, you give
the push collection a back
to say, whenever something happens,
no, define me on that
thing. Okay. Now, how do
you get notified? Well, with,
with innumerable, you can be
notified for three things. You
can be notified with the
value that's when move next
return through, and you say
gets current. You can be
notified of the amount of
the collection. That's when moved
next return false. Or it's
gonna throw an exception. Many
people don't realize that. But
if I call, move next
that my throw an exception.
Okay. Should there, there are
three possibilities. Okay. There's three
possible values, a normal value,
determination, or an exception. Okay.
Now the same thing with
push collection. When I hand
you this interface, you can
tell me to rethink, you
can give me a normal
value, like a coin. You
can tell me, I ran
out of money. Don't expect
anything more. Or you can
send me an exception and
say something runs wrong. Heart
attack. There's no money. Exactly.
I'm unavailable. And so that's
the, what we call the
observer interface, which is something
that has three functions on
next to which it gets
the regular value on completed.
That indicates termination and on
error where you sent me
an exception. Okay. Now for
the listeners who have been
thinking about this and been
listening along with us, they
may be saying, well, I've
never personally called get a
numerator. I've never really thought
about I enumerator. I innumerable.
They've been viewing that through
the lens of, for each.
They've been doing that for
the lens of select and
link. Exactly. The DSL that
is link has been hiding
the fact that this is
really happening. Exactly. And so
for the same, we do
exactly the same with RX.
Just like you, can you
hide the whole mechanism of,
you know, get enumerates or
move next in for each
or in particular. Now it
link in where select many
group by all the sequence
operators and you can write
link queries, overdose. We have
to implement it exactly the
same operators on these observable
collections and observable collections is
maybe confusing because there's also
the observable collections in WPF.
Well, on these high observable
collections, these push collections To
be clear, what we know
of as observational collections in
WPF are not, I observable
collections, no, As it relates
to the way they could
implement, I observed, Oh, they,
they signal an event whenever
something changes, which is like,
you know, every event you
can view as an observable.
Okay. So we have implemented
all the link operators over
these IO, observable based collections.
And that's why sometimes people
call this link to events
because an events stream like
a button button clicks is
an example of, of, of
something that isn't a push-based.
Now the nice thing is
that you can write very
cool positional things. Now using
link various that you couldn't
do before. Imagine that you
want to write, everybody's familiar
with this in visual studio.
When you have IntelliSense, whenever
you type something intelligence, doesn't
show up immediately, right? It
only, when you pause for
a little while, then IntelliSense
shows up. Otherwise it would
drive you crazy. Right? You
dive in and deli center
would go up and down.
So it kind of pauses.
And then, so when you
pause for a little bit,
intelligence shows up, well, that's
now an operation that I
can define on any event
stream. So imagine that I
have a button in my
UI, and if you click
on it really fast, I
don't want to go an
action. Whenever you click on
the button, only when you
click on the button and
then there is no click
within a certain time period.
Hey everybody, this is Scott
coming at you from another
place in time. No doubt.
You'll probably bump into testing
tasks now, and then, and
your work and, you know,
writing functional tests is probably
not your favorite thing. It's
kind of difficult. It takes
time and the results can
be dubious. Well, get ready
to start liking tests. Thanks
to Tellerik with the, the
new whereby testing framework building
web automation test is a
breeze. You've got code automation
with advanced asp.net, Ajax and
server light applications. You can
write a single test, have
it executed against multiple browsers
at once. You'd benefit from
a rich API there's link
support integration with visual studio
unit testing, also in unit
X unit and MBA unit,
not to mention the free
rappers for Telerik rad controls
for ESPN and Ajax, and
several light, all shipping with
Telerik's new testing tool. One
of the best features, the
webinar testing framework, which is
developed by art of test
is it's absolutely free. Freddie
got hooked on web by
testing framework, start using it
right away, go to tellerik.com
for more info. Thanks a
lot. Alright, that's the kind
of thing where that would
be kind of difficult. I
think I'd make a timer
and I'd keep a track
of how long it's been.
And, you know, and I
think it would probably take
a little thought eight or
nine lines of yuck and
might have some race conditions
and some weird exactly. Plus
if you now want to
do that for a key
up event, you would have
to write everything again. You
would have to copy and
paste that state machine. Exactly.
And so what we now
can do, if you expose
your events using an eye
observable, then you can reuse
that same library that we
wrote to do that and
apply that to any events
or another interesting. Can you
talk, can you just, before
you go move on, can
you say a little something
about what that syntax might
look like? Cause I'm familiar
with, you know, you know,
from P and people that
kind of, what is this
Do the same thing. So
let me try a little
bit experiment. This is hard
to explain in words, but
my old professor told me
if you cannot explain it
in white ink, you cannot
explain it at all. So
I'm explaining it in white
ink, which is so let's
look at a simple example
of an Ajax application. An
Ajax application usually does the
following. There's some UI and
based on a UI event,
like a key brass or
a button click, you're making
a service call to some
web service, which might take
time. And imagine you're using
a service reference that returns
an event, the results comes
back and then you want
to update the UI. Okay.
So here's how you would
ride this using link. You
say from value in UI
event, from result in surface
call based on the result
of the UI event, select
the result of the service
call. So we have a
little query that joins the
stream of UI events with
the stream of surface reference
results. And I see your
heads here. Yeah, no, I,
I, my head just exploded
and it's leaking onto your
floor. So you've just taken
what would have been the
hooking up of an event
handler, which would be one
line of code up off
somewhere in the top of
my file, the event handler
itself, the method call the
stuff that I would have
to react to. I'd have
to dig it out of
the property that the, the
parameters, and you've distilled it
down into one terse, but
readable single line of code,
which is essentially what link
does. Yes, Exactly. And the
nice thing. And this is
really the power of link.
I think we are still
underestimating the power of link
because a lot of people,
when they hear link, they
think maybe linked to objects
and maybe linked to sequel
or linked to entities, but
link can work on anything
that implements the sequence operators.
And in this case, these
push collections also implement the
sequence operators. So you can
write link various over them.
So all the pushing, all
the announcing, all the threads,
all the synchronization, all the
event throwing is hidden entirely
Inside to the secret side,
the secrets operators. Yes. And
so you can do that
once and for all. And
so we are spending a
lot of time. And when
you came in, you saw
that I was kind of
talking with my team, we're
spending a lot of time
making these things correct. And
especially the edge cases and
race conditions and so on
and such debts, you know,
you can then freely compose
these kind of simple building
blocks in big urbans. And
what about where it's like,
what, when would I use
aware or a filter of
some kind of, Here's an
example, suppose you, you want,
you have your mouse and
you want to restrict your
mouse to do stay within
a certain window of your,
in your screen. I was
doing this just last week.
I was doing this well.
So what you do is
you take your Mo your
module moves, and you just
say, where, you know, exposition
is lash then, you know,
within the boundaries and the
Y position is in the
boundaries. And now you only
get events from the mouse
within Actually not you're, you're,
you're actually filtering the, the
creation of event. You're saying,
I don't even want to
know about the event if
it doesn't meet this. Yes.
Because this is such a
classic problem. And I always
get nailed with the I'm
trying to drag something. And
I didn't think about the
mouse move with the mouse
button down is different than
when it's up. And, you
know, that's the, the, the
best way to, to, to
crash a new program that
does a lot of drag
drop is to grab something
and just start shaking the
mouse around and see whether
or not they're off, they
have an off by one
pixel or negatives, move it
onto another monitor, change, different
coordinate system. Yeah. And, and
just a lot of code.
Yes. And, and funny that
you mentioned it drag and
drop as well enough of
kind of our, our famous
examples. And it's like also
an exercise and it's, it's
incredible in how many ways
you can actually ride dragons
or up using our RX.
And if you go to
our forum, or I think
there's also an example in
the wall, 101 RX samples
to do that, talking about,
you know, writing UI programs.
And a lot of people
think that when you're writing
UI programs, they're hard to
test because if you now,
for example, I have to
test your program that does
drag and drop because how
do you test it? Because
you have to maybe have
a real mouse to move,
right? Because you know, how,
how do I simulate my
mind? How do I ride
a mock mouse street? Well,
if you use RX, it
becomes trivial because what you
can do is you can
replace the implementation, the source
of the mouse, move events
by something else, say an
RA, just a collection of
events. And then you say
to innumerable on that array.
So that's your, your input.
And then you can look
at that the output stream
turned death into another era
Beck. And then you can
just compare that to the,
Which I don't need a
mock mouse because all I
was reacting to before were
events that were in a
collection, I just simply make
that collection and pass it
in. And the data is
the data. Exactly. So by
making events first glass, you
allow to kind of plug
in a different implementation. And
that's kind of one of
the big sources of power
of the reactive extensions events
in dotnet are beautiful things,
but they are not first
class they're there. And what
do I mean by first
glass is that you cannot
take an event and put
it in an IRA, or
you cannot take an event
and pass it as a
parameter or return it's from
a method rather than event
is going to die to
do the class in which
it's declared. What we do
with RX is we free
events from kind of the
bridging of the class. And
now events become first-class things
that you can put in
an array pass around. And
now it becomes really easy
to create a mock source
of events, because it's just
like any other time. And,
and, and, and by including
them into the link ecosystem,
just as you know, that
they are as first-class assistant,
not object right there. Yes.
Whether I'm looking at events
or XML or SQL or
a file systems. Yeah. It's
all what I'm comfortable with
already. Yeah. How do we
get into this now? Help
me understand the state of
the project. Where is it?
What's the ship vehicle? How
do I get it? The
listeners will be interested in
this. Where can they use
it? And where do you
think it's going? Okay. So
that's a good question. So
D D interfaces to do
interfaces. I observer and I
observable are shipping and don't
net FORO. So there, you
can get them. And they're
inside of system dot Corp.
They are in system re
system reactive system reactive. Okay.
Our system observer, But that's
the namespace, but they're probably
in the system about core
physical. Yeah. So, sorry. Yes.
I'm here confused because we
have like many, many versions
that I will explain now.
Okay, good. So the interfaces
are in  and the
reason I sounded a little
bit confused here because in
net four, we introduced something
really beautiful, which is go
and contract variance. And since
these are interfaces, they are
go and Contra variant observable
is go variant. And the
observer is . So you
might want to take a
moment. Cause a lot of
our listeners don't necessarily speak
English as their native language,
and they're going to be
off looking this up and
they may or may not
be familiar with the terms
of covariance and Contravent. So
just take a brief moment
and, okay. So what go
means, and many people that
have used collections in dotnet
will have discovered that let's
go back to erase. If
I have an array of
bananas, I can BOSH that
where you need an array
of fruit, because fruit is
a  type of fruit.
So if I have an
array of bananas and you
need an array of fruit,
I can pass you that
array. Now, if I ha,
if you expect an innumerable
of fruit, I cannot pass
you an innumerable of bananas
because innumerable until don't match
for or Walston all to
go variant. So the fact
that, you know, even though
banana is a special kind
of fruit, innumerable of banana
was not an innumerable of
fruit, Was a, basically another
way to phrase it as
that array, as simple as
it is, was a first
class citizen and innumerable innumerable
was not at first A
citizen, in some sense, it's,
it's more than not that
it's a first class citizen,
but it's the fact that
it's a, it's a generic
dive that has a diaper
and Muktar, but the, the
sip diving, the inheritance relation
is not carried across the
generics. Okay. So then now
the beautiful thing that you've
added in dotnet four, because
of that is the ability
to do this with events.
Yes. So that's why we
have that in dotnet FORO
but now when we backport,
it's a reactive framework to
3.5, there is no go
variance there, or there is
covariance, but C-sharp three doesn't
X-Box that show. We have
a separate implementation for that.
And then we have a
separate implementation for silver Silverlight
and a separate implementation for
the compact framework. So if
you go to Def labs,
you ask about shipping vehicle.
So on deaf labs, we
have installers available with the
full framework for each of
these platforms, each of these
versions of dotnet. And so
they're all kind of slightly
different. Well, another interesting aspect
here is that in our
ax, you, you mentioned a
while back that you, if
you want to do something
asynchronously, you spin up a
separate threat, right?  we
introduced the DPL task, parallel
library, nice firelight library. And
so we said, well, in
case you, you need to
introduce concurrency. Why aren't we
leveraging, you know, the TPL?
So our X is built
on top of the TPL,
but in three, five, there
is no TPL. So we
work together with the VFX
team and Becky  parallel
framework extension. And we backport
to that two, three, five.
So if you download RX
from dev labs, you get
an implementation of the parallel
framework for.net three, five. Alright,
Let me see if I
understand this. Cause if I
understand it, I'll be able
to say it back to
you. So the reactive framework
and the, the interfaces that
support it are in done
at four and when done
at four ships they'll have
that. Yeah. They can go
up and get implementations for
server Lite implementations for compact
framework and implementations. For those,
those are the two primary
things Silverlight and compact framework.
No, Silverline Going back to
framework three, five. Okay. And
for FORO the implementation of
the sequence operators, because if
it's only the interfaces Right
now, I can, and that'll
be supported because it's in
FORO. Yes. But the back
port to three, five is
still a labs thing or
is it fully supported? It's
on labs, but we're kind
of, you know, well, this
fully supported, Well, I guess
what I'm saying is if
I'm a big corporate developer,
I'm going to go tell
my boss, I should use
this. Would he be more
happy if I use the
four over version? Then if
I use the back port
at three, To be clear,
the four version only the
only the interfaces are into
BCL, right? The sequence operators
are on dev labs right
now, I'm talking about, can
I use this? We have
a very liberal license where
you can, you can use
this. So it's, it's kind
of different than in the
BCL. But if you read
the license, the way I
think of it is that,
you know, we're trying to
take away all the barriers
for people to use RX.
So there's no one should
be afraid of using this.
It's not a skunkworks thing.
It's a real thing with
a team behind it. Yes.
Okay. Now, interestingly at the
beginning here, you're in the
cloud programmability team and we
haven't said anything about the
cloud. So how does all
this, what we've just talked
about, fit into the cloud.
Okay. Well, showed the cloud
is all about, let's say,
well, this, the, the, the
best way to say the
way I look at the
cloud is that it's meshing
up services from different sources
into a client. Now all
these services to get to
them is an asynchronous call.
You have to go across
the network and make an
asynchronous call. Now on the
client, you have to synchronize
and orchestrate these different services,
which is also an aspect
that we haven't talked about.
But which is very important.
Imagine that I'm making two
service calls or three to
three different translation engines. Okay.
And now I want to
wait until two out of
three have, have returned a
result. That's a, that's a
classic kind of a problem.
That's the kind of thing
where the, the businessman, the
suit that signs, my checks
can say it very easily.
Hey, programmer, call these three,
two out of three within
five seconds and then use
them the third one. Doesn't
come back. Don't worry about
it. If the, if only
one comes back, give up
and show an error, and
he'll say that was crystal
clear. And you're going to
think, all right, well, that's
about 60 hours of work.
Exactly. And with RX, that
should become easier. That's when
w when I mentioned the
beginning, democratizing the cloud, those
are the kinds of scenarios
that I want to make
super, super easy. So one
of the things that we
that's also in the, in,
in our access, something called
to join patterns where you
can ride to rules, think
of like outlook rules that
you have in your inbox.
You know, if a message
comes into the inbox and
it sets, as far as
these things, then put it
here. You can write the
same rules on events, streams,
or on asynchronous computations. So
if these two comments, you
do this, if these two
come in and you do
that. And so you can
write at a very high
level, you can ride with
very concise synchronization, logic to
orchestrates service goals and events,
streams, et cetera, You know,
and, and having little kind
of like firecrackers going off
in my head, because I'm
starting to realize that it
makes total sense why you'd
be working so closely with
the PFX team, but the
parallel team, because they are
democratizing a multiprocessor and threading,
they're trying to make concurrency
accessible as are you, you're
trying to make this kind
of concurrency access. Yes. And
for example, here's a concrete
example. If you take a
task and you can take
a task and turn that
into an observable. So if
you have any API that
works with docs, you can
expose it as an I
observable. And in some sense,
that's comparable to taking an
array and viewing that as
an innumerable. So at DAS
cause a lot of special
properties and, and, and special
operations. But now I want
to glue together a task,
which, you know, button clicks
and that's this world RX
allows to do, because you
can Xpress both in terms
of this higher level interface.
This is really interesting. I'm
starting to realize that looking
at the way that, that
you've integrated with link, the
way that the parallel extension
seems to integrated with link,
that you're going to be
able to write a very,
very clear and crisp statements
that will say things like,
you know, fire off these
services. When these come back,
go off in these cores
and use, you know, four
out of the eight available
cores to process this information,
let me know when it's
done. And it starts to
the code you write starts
to look more like what
the businessman in the suit
actually said. Yes, exactly. And
that's kind of the whole,
the whole point of link
where you can of you're,
you're raising the level of
abstraction where you can write
these things in a much
higher level way without where
you abstract. Again, that we
mentioned this notion of abstraction
a couple of times, right?
All the complicated locking and
so on is now hidden
in the sequence operators, such
that you, as a programmer,
only have to, it's like
Lego blocks. You can kind
of now connect these together.
And then inside these blocks,
there's a lot of complexity,
but that's all hidden for
you. And this is one
of the things that I've
been saying kind of more
and more, and I feel
a little bit like you're
validating what I've said, which
is in Dutton at four
O and I'm going to
sound like a fan boy
here of my own company.
The Lego blocks are the
right size, you know, before
it was like the little
tiny one-piece Legos, and then
the big ones that you
gave to your two year
old child, and you try
to make them work together.
And it doesn't, but, but
I feel like more than
ever that they go blocks
are the appropriate size for
most of the business problems
that I'm trying to solve.
Yep. And, and I would
agree with that. And so
we're, we're writing a lot
of samples and, you know,
even though, as you say,
even though, I mean, I
made this myself, it surprises
me every day. When I
ride a sample, how beautiful
and how elegant you can
describe problems. It's like, okay,
here's a problem. And you,
you scratch your heads a
little bit. And then, Oh,
this is, you know, it's
like, like a little poem
that, you know, your code
is like a poem and
it makes programming a lot
of fun when your code
looks beautiful and kind of
tight and, and does exactly
what it needs to do
without any kind of noise.
That's, that's kind of what
gives me pleasure in life
as a developer. Well, that's
fantastic. Well, Eric Meyer, thank you
so much for sitting down
with me today and sharing
this framework with me. You're
very welcome. We'll put the
links up on the show
site that you have access
to all of this stuff,
and maybe we'll come and
see Eric again some time.
This has been another episode
of Hansel minutes, and I'll
see you again next week.